hey guys my name is J I'm one of the
expert TOEFL teachers here at e to
language in this lesson I'm going to
teach you how to write an essay a TOEFL
independent essay I'm going to take you
through the entire thing from the very
first sentence of the introduction right
through to the final sentence of the
conclusion so if you're unsure about how
to structure your essay or what to write
or how to do it in any way let's do this
together okay so let's have a closer
look at it so we're looking at TOEFL
independent writing this is task to the
independent essay so in this lesson I'm
going to firstly describe the task to
you we're going to look at the essay
structure we'll use and that you should
use on test day I'm going to teach you
how to write an introduction and
paragraphs one and two and possibly
three which is optional and also how to
write a conclusion so in fact these
three things the introduction the
paragraphs and the conclusion are your
essay so why are we doing this well I
want you to understand how to write a
TOEFL essay but it's more than that it's
not just about how to write an essay
it's about getting you a high score
that's what it's about okay cool so
first of all let me describe the task to
you so in total integrated writing tasks
you give your opinion and specific
reasons and examples to support your
opinion that's what you have to do you
need to write a minimum of 300 words and
you have 30 minutes to do this
now let's look at an example essay
question I'll read this one to you okay
okay okay so we can see that it's a an
agree or disagree type of essay an
argumentative essay it says do you agree
or disagree with the following statement
here's the statement so while I read
this thing to yourself do I agree or
disagree
it teaches ability to relate well with
students is more important than
excellent knowledge of the subject being
taught let me read it again
it teaches ability to relate well with
students
is more important than excellent
knowledge of the subject being taught do
you agree or disagree how do you feel
about this question prompt do you think
that a teachers character and their
ability to connect to students is more
important than their knowledge of the
subject this is an agreed disagree essay
now you're probably thinking well both
is good if it teachers you know
personable and also knowledgeable that's
the best thing but this isn't about that
you need to choose a side here you need
to choose a side and that will make your
life a lot easier when you write this
essay because you'll argue for one side
over the other side okay you'll see that
in my essay and then finally it says use
specific reasons and examples to support
your opinion okay fine
so the essay structure we're going to
use is this we're going to have an
introduction paragraph one paragraph two
we're going to have an optional
paragraph three depending on the word
count remember you need to get to 300
words so if you're if you've written two
paragraphs in your at 250 then you may
need to include this additional
paragraph and also of course you need a
conclusion so more specifically if we
break this down this is what the entire
essay is going to look like so your
introduction is going to have one to
three sentences first sentence you write
a general statement then you rewrite the
prompt in your own words and say this
essay will blah blah blah that's the
structure for the introduction the
structure for the paragraphs is like
this sentence one you'll give a reason
then you'll expand upon that with an
explanation
you'll give an example and you'll write
a closing sentence so there'll be four
sentences in each of your paragraphs
fine and then your conclusion will have
two sentences where you briefly mention
the reasons in paragraphs one and two
and possibly three and you give your
overall opinion so I'm going to take you
through this sentence by sentence and
trust me once you've done this once once
you've written an essay like this once
it just
becomes like oh wow I know how to do it
if you don't have a structure and you
try to write an essay yourself it's just
I don't know about you but it's usually
it's like it's like a jungle it's not
good right but if you follow this cookie
cutter approach this systematic approach
to writing an essay trust me
you write one of these like this and you
think oh wow I understand now how to
structure an essay and why it's
structured like this structure for an
essay is so critical because it's not
just what it does having a good
structure actually organizes your
thoughts and once you've organized your
thoughts the writing becomes much easier
okay then you can concentrate on your
grammar and vocabulary because you've
got this structure that you're working
with and you're not thinking about the
structure so it will improve your
writing enormous ly in other words fine
let's look at the plan we need a plan we
need to write a quick plan we've got 30
minutes to write this essay let's plan
for just 30 seconds so the plan is this
you need to ask yourself well basically
three maybe four questions first one
what's your overall opinion second
question what's your reason what's your
first reason what's your second reason
and possibly what's your third reason
now they need to be quite distinct
because they will become your paragraph
so this this part here will be become
your introduction because you need to
put your opinion into your introduction
and into your conclusion and also once
you've once you know your opinion well
you know the trajectory of the essay how
you will write the essay because if you
for example with our question if you say
that that knowledge is more important
than an ability to connect with students
then that's where you're heading that's
your target your conclusion you will you
will go in the right direction okay so
the reasons this becomes paragraph one
this becomes paragraph two and this
becomes your optional OOP sorry
paragraph three okay so you need to ask
yourself these questions for example
here's what I'm gonna write about what's
your overall opinion I'm going to say
that having a good relationship with
your students is more important than
being knowledgeable about the subject so
I'm going to argue for this side of the
argument okay so I need some reasons my
paragraph one will be about better
performance having a good relationship
with your students in class as a teacher
means that they will perform better in
terms of Education also they'll be more
open to learning and they will enjoy
learning more so these are three
distinct ideas and you need to make sure
that your ideas for your paragraphs are
distinct and separate from each other
because you don't want to mix your
paragraphs and you also don't want to
write about the same thing more than
once in another paragraph so try and sit
there and think of three or two two
maybe three distinct clear ideas because
one paragraph one idea your second
paragraph a separate idea okay I'll show
you how to do that as well alright so
how do we write an introduction how do
we write an essay introduction well as I
said we're going to have three sentences
the first sentence we're going to write
a general statement based on the prompt
then we're going to rewrite the prompt
in our own words and then we're going to
say this essay will discuss blah blah
blah now you might like to think of it
like this
we start out broad you can think of it
as an up-down upside-down pyramid so we
start broad and that's the general
statement then we rewrite the question
in our own words and then we do this
essay well and so it starts to focus
down here and it creates a trajectory a
logical structure for the rest of your
essay start broad and then go specific
okay so let's look at sentence one right
a general statement based on the prompt
so I wrote this
besides our parents teachers are
arguably the most influential figures
guiding us through
our formative years so this is just a
basic general statement based on the
prompt it's not specific it's just
talking about how important teachers are
right general statement about the
importance of teachers file the prompt
said a teacher's ability to relate while
the students is more important than
excellent knowledge of the subject being
taught now I need to rewrite this prompt
in my own words this is the second
sentence I rewrite the question prompt
in my own words so I wrote this here's
the question prompt here let me read it
again and then I'll compare it with mine
this says it teachers ability to relate
well with students is more important
than excellent knowledge of the subject
being taught
I wrote some believe that having
excellent subject knowledge is less
important than the way the teacher
relates to the students at a personal
level this basically says the exact same
thing is this but in different words
that's all I've done I've just turned
that into that it's not rocket science
sentence three this essay will and now
state my opinion this essay will discuss
why it is in fact a teacher's ability to
relate well with his or her students
that is more important than subject
matter expertise so my opinion my
opinion here is about the teacher's
ability to relate well with students is
more important than subject matter
expertise and I've used this phrase here
this essay will this you can use this I
suggest you use this this essay will
discuss why block my opinion okay done
so let me read you my introduction
besides our parents teachers are
arguably the most influential figures
guiding us through our formative years
some believe that having excellent
subject matter is less important than
the way the teacher relates to the
students at a personal level this essay
will discuss why it is in fact a
teacher's ability to relate well with
his or her students that is more
important than subject matter expert
you can see how I've started out broad
and I've worked my way to a specific
opinion here I'm a broad background
sentence I've reread the question and
then I said this essay will do this cool
now we move to paragraphs ok we've
written an introduction we have a clear
eye opinion now we write to the
paragraph so my first paragraph will be
about better educational performance ok
so that's going to be I need to state
that very clearly in my opening sentence
my sentence 1 and then sentenced to I
extrapolate I expand on that idea I give
an explanation and then I give an
example and then I just write a
concluding sentence so state reason 1
contrary to the belief that teachers
need to be experts in their subjects
evidence shows that students actually
learn more when they like their teacher
so better educational performance
evidence shows that students actually
learn more when they like their teacher
fine I've stated my reason 1 now I need
to expand upon that given explanation we
want to impress people we like so when a
student likes a teacher they also want
the teacher to like them good so I've
just extrapolated expanded on that idea
and you can see here I've in fact
written two sentences so it's not
necessarily set in stone you can write
more than one sentence that's fine
ok fine now I need to give an example
for example evidence shows that this is
linked to longer attention spans and to
higher levels of student motivation
that's my example now examples can
include you can give some statistics you
can just make it up you can say for us
statistics revealed that 99% of students
appreciate teachers more when they like
them as people something like that or
you can say according to a recent study
from Harvard University
blah blah blah or for example evidence
shows whatever it is you can just make
up the evidence here you don't need real
evidence that's fine
okay great now I just need to conclude
this sentence so having a teacher they
like means that students will put in the
effort to make sure they don't
disappoint their teacher excellent this
is my paragraph and while I read this
just think about how well-structured
this is the logical structure of it
contrary to the belief that teachers
need to be experts in their subjects
evidence shows that students actually
learn more when they like their teacher
we want to impress people we like so
when a student likes a teacher they also
want the teacher to like them for
example evidence shows that this is
linked to longer attention spans into
highest levels of student motivation so
having a teacher they like means that
students will put in the effort to make
sure they don't disappoint their teacher
cool better educational performance
that's what this was about
very well-structured we do the same
thing for paragraph two let's go through
it one more time this time I'm going to
write a distinctly different point which
is that students are more open to
learning so in my first paragraph I
talked about how a good personable
teacher leads to better educational
performance now I'm going to talk about
how students are more open to learning
as a result of having a personable
teacher again sentence 1 I'll state my
reason then I'll expand upon it and give
an explanation
I'll give any some evidence like an
example and then I'll conclude same
thing so here we go secondly students
feel more comfortable with a teacher
they can relate to and therefore they
will be more open to learning I've just
made a very clear here more open to
learning that's my reason to and I've
said it explicitly ok you don't need to
you should say this explicitly not hide
it or make it too complex make it very
clear and apparent what you
paragraph will be about sentence two we
give an explanation teachers are not
just there to impart academic knowledge
but also to support their students
mental and emotional development
okay fine now we need some evidence or
an an example for instance teachers who
relate well to their students will be
more successful in reaching their
students on a deeper level as students
will be more willing to approach them if
they have an academic or personal
problem for instance for example
according to recent statistics or
something like that and now I conclude
this paragraph and I say this supports
the idea that the best learning happens
in a supportive environment therefore
providing support is sometimes more
important than imparting expert
knowledge you can see how my my
concluding sentence links back to my
first opening sentence they almost say
the same thing in fact and there's my
paragraph too I won't read it this time
but you can pause the video if you like
and look at the logical coherence of
this paragraph I really do encourage you
to follow this structure and it's not
this is this is a structure it's
different to a template if you're
memorizing a template you're going to
run into a lot of problems because you
have to memorize particular words and
phrases and it's very hard on your
memory memorizing a structure is much
easier you know the four sentence
paragraph for example you just know that
you have to write the opening the
support sentence there evidence in the
closing sentence and you know that the
introduction has three sentences it's
very little to memorize here and it's
also extremely flexible so whatever
question prompt you get on test day this
will work for that question prompt no
doubt about it so yeah I do encourage
you to use this structure it works well
I should come back and I also encourage
you to get feedback on your essays one
of the things we do in a two language is
you submit your essays through the
system and a teacher will receive them
and give you
feedback written feedback including a
score and areas to improve and whatnot
we also run one-on-one tutorials if you
need that if you need that real extra
boost okay all right well how to write
paragraph three it's the same thing and
perhaps I'll get you to write this one
now again this is an optional paragraph
if you are under the word count if
you're below 300 words then you might
want to include a third paragraph where
you just all you need to do is think of
a separate distinct idea like students
enjoy learning more for example again
you state the reason give explanation
give an example and conclude it okay but
this is this is optional depending on
the word count okay cool let's talk
about the conclusion because this is a
critical part of your essay to really
wrap it up nicely so we saw that the
introduction has three parts you general
statement rewrite the prompt this essay
will then we did we wrote learned how to
write the paragraph that's fine the
conclusion what we do here is we briefly
mention the reasons in one and two I'll
show you how to do this and possibly
three depending if we wrote the third
one and then we give our overall opinion
let me show you how to do this briefly
mention the reasons from paragraphs one
two and three so let me show you and I
want you to use this phrase here this is
a discussed past tense
this says they discussed how a
well-liked teacher can improve
educational performance open students up
to learning more and make learning more
enjoyable so what this sentence does is
it briefly restates the ideas in your
paragraphs this essay discussed
paragraph one how a well-liked teacher
can improve educational performance
paragraph two open students up to
learning more and if we included it
paragraph three make learning more
enjoyable see that that's all I've done
is just briefly mention reasons one two
and possibly three then I moved to
sentence to the final sentence of the
essay and I give an overall opinion and
I say in conclusion in my view when it
comes to teachers knowledge is
subordinate to the real teaching skill
which is being personable and likeable
I've given my overall opinion I probably
didn't say need to put this in here to
be honest I probably could have just
said in conclusion comma when it comes
to teachers knowledge is subordinate or
less important to the real teaching
skill which is being personable and
likeable and you can see that this
follows on from my introduction remember
in my introduction I had my opinion the
final sentence of the conclusion also
has the same opinion so my sense of my
overall essay is completely coherent let
me read you the conclusion this says
they discussed how a well-liked teacher
can improve educational performance open
students up to learning more and make
learning more enjoyable in conclusion
when it comes to teachers knowledge is
subordinate to the real teaching skill
which is being personable and likeable
my overall essay is this I believe this
was just this was 298 words right so
I've written 298 words I don't need a
paragraph three to get it to 300 all I
need to do is add a couple of adjectives
in here from that I could add an
adjective before this teacher and get it
up to 300 and that's fine but on test
day this is what your essay should look
like on the computer screen you can see
the gaps my introduction and then I've
got my paragraphs and then I've got my
conclusion cool 308 words in fact it was
298 I apologize for that
now evaluation how do we know we've
written a good essay well this is what
the TOEFL base your essay grade on one
you clearly address the topic which we
did
- its well organized you use a logical
structure which we did three has clear
examples explanations and details to
support your opinion which else
definitely dance users correct sentence
structure word choice grammar and
vocabulary if you're worried about that
please do get some feedback from e to
language we can help you with that stuff
but this you can learn from our online
course this you probably need to speak
to the teacher and that's cool right
we've done it for TOEFL success do check
out e to language comm we can help you
out with any of the TOEFL tasks or
essays or speaking parts whatever you
need help with we offer the full course
content live group classes one-on-one
tutorials and feedback I hope that was
helpful yeah if you're on the platform I
do want you to now go through and submit
an essay for us to look at that would be
great cool
I'm Jane I'll see you soon